
--- Page 1 ---
ARCHITECTURAL DRAWING FLOOR PLAN   General Directions: Floor Plan 1. Add dimensions, notes, North arrow, and door and window call-outs as specified below in the "Floor Plan Drawing Checklist." The Dimension Style is ARCHITECTURAL and the Multileader Style is LEADER DETAILS-48. All lettering will be uppercase letters. 2. Add the required information in the title block as specified in the "Floor Plan Drawing Checklist." 3. Draw the floor plan using a scale of 1/4" = 1'-0". 4. Cut a section through the structure running from top to bottom. Add section marks following standard Architectural Symbols and Conventions. The location for the section should match the Basement Plan. 5. Underline the drawing title as specified following standard Architectural Symbols and Conventions. 6. Add appropriate architectural hatching symbols for the building materials. 7. Add the chimney from the Basement Plan in the utility room.   Documentation and Specifications 1. Use the AIA manual to look up standard dimensions of bricks. Photocopy the page and highlight the required information. (See http://aia.org/practicing/bestpractices/index.htm) 2. Use the AIA manual to find dimensions for 4" metal prefabricated punched studs. Photocopy the page and highlight the required information.  Floor Plan Drawing Checklist 1. Add the assigned border and title block. 2. Indicate the title of the drawing in the title block (OFFICE BUILDING) 3. Indicate the scale of the drawing in the title block. 4. Indicate the drawing number in the title block (A-102). 5. Place the North arrow in the upper left corner of the drawing sheet. 6. Show all interior partition walls (draw at nominal thickness). 7. Show all exterior masonry walls using a line weight of 0.020. 8. Indicate all windows with the proper symbol. 9. Show window call-out symbols (from window schedule) using a 1/4" diameter circle with 3/32" lettering. 10. Indicate all doors with the proper symbol. Show all door swings. 11. Show door call-out symbols (from door schedule) using a 1/4" diameter circle with 3/32" lettering. 12. Indicate all stairs showing directional arrows for UP or DOWN including all interior stairs and exterior stairs.  13. Indicate chimneys. 14. Label all rooms, areas, and closets using 1/8" lettering. 15. Dimension window and exterior door opening locations in masonry walls from the outside face of walls to the edges of the window and door openings. 16. Dimension door and window openings in masonry walls to their edges. 17. Dimension door locations in framed walls from the center of the framed wall to the center of the door opening. 18. Dimension interior partition locations from the edge of masonry walls to the centers of interior framed partitions. 19. Dimension interior framed partitions to their centers. 20. Dimension exterior masonry walls from the outside edge to outside edge.  21. Indicate where all sections and details are being taken using the proper symbols and notations. 22. Dimension concrete and masonry walls and partitions to the outside faces. 23. Dimension the locations of doors and windows in masonry walls from the outside of wall facing to the edge of the door and window openings. 24. Indicate the size, spacing, and direction of ceiling joists (from calculations). 25. Show the title and scale of the plan under the plan view.  