
--- Page 1 ---
DESIGN ACTIVITY (4–8 GRADE)PAGE 1 OF 5DESIGN ACTIVITY (4–8 GRADE)
Home Floor Plan
Learners will...
• Observe their living space
• Understand how to translate observations 
of a 3D space into 2D floor plans
• Create a floor plan of their observed spaceLearners will observe their living space and 
create a floor plan of their home. 


--- Page 2 ---
DESIGN ACTIVITY (4–8 GRADE)PAGE 2 OF 5Instructions
Before starting, gather some materials. You will need paper 
(graph paper, if you have any), pencil, ruler or hard edge 
(optional), and a tape measure (optional). 
Begin by discussing what floor plans are (see background  
for definition).
Sample Questions: What do you think floor plans are used for? Why 
might floor plans show the above view instead of a different view? 
Look over the floor plan examples provided. Ask your learner 
what they notice about the floor plans—How are different 
building features like walls, windows, and doors shown? 
What do the different symbols mean?
Once they feel comfortable with the general structure of a 
floor plan, have your learner choose a room in your home 
to observe. Ask your learner to walk around and observe 
that room, making note of where walls, windows, and doors 
are placed, as well as their sizes—are there certain walls or 
windows that are longer than others? Where are they? 
Encourage your learner to record their observations by writing notes 
and making sketches.
After they have finished observing, challenge your learner to 
draw a free-hand sketch of the floor plan of the room they 
just observed. Allow them to move around and make more 
observations as they draw. 
Extra Challenge: Add furniture and labels to the room.1
2
3For older students: After the initial sketch, have them 
draw the sketch, have them use the tape measure to measure 
the dimensions of the room and locations of doors and 
windows. Ask them to write the measurements down on the 
sketch. Then help your learner convert the measurements 
to a smaller scale. The simplest way would be to do a “1 foot 
equals 1 cm” scale, ex. a 20 foot long wall would be 20 cm. 
However, feel free to play around with different ratios and 
metrics. 
Note: If you don’t have a tape measure, your learner can measure 
with steps (ex., count how many steps it takes to cross the room). 
Once everything has been converted, challenge your learner 
to draw the newly scaled drawing using a ruler. If you don’t 
have a ruler, you can print out a paper ruler or have your 
learner use their fingers. For example, 3 steps is equal to the 
width of 3 fingers. 
Discuss the end results together. 
Sample Questions: What was difficult? What new things did you 
learn or notice about the room?
Once they are satisfied with the room floor plan, challenge 
them to draw the floor plan for the rest of the home!  547
86
9

--- Page 3 ---
DESIGN ACTIVITY (4–8 GRADE)PAGE 3 OF 5What is a floor plan?
A floor plan is a scaled diagram of a building or room shown from above. It shows the 
placement of rooms, doors, windows, walls, and other building features as needed. They can 
be drawn by hand, or made using software, Older students can explore free online floor plan 
tools such as Autodesk Homestyler  and RoomSketcher . 
Floor plans are helpful for understanding the layout of a space, including placing furniture, 
planning appliances, and showing living spaces to prospective buyers or renters. 
Note: Floor plans use different symbols to signify different building features such as windows and doors. 
The symbols may vary slightly across designers, but must stay consistent within a single floor plan. 
Nutwood East - One Bedroom 
https://www.nutwoodeast.com/floorplans.aspxHoang Hu Thanh 
https://www.top5freelancers.com/3d-floor-plan-
design-services/Mimi’s Bedroom

--- Page 4 ---
DESIGN ACTIVITY (4–8 GRADE)PAGE 4 OF 5Suggested Floor Plan Symbols
Here are a few basic symbols to help you get started. It’s ok if yours don’t look exactly the 
same, as long as they get the general idea across.
STAIRS DOWN STAIRS UP WINDOW
Share your floor plans with Design Museum 
Everywhere using #designtogether and tag us!
design_museum designmuseumeverywhereWALL DOOR

--- Page 5 ---
DESIGN ACTIVITY (4–8 GRADE)PAGE 5 OF 5Printable Ruler
1 2 3 4 5 61 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15inchcm