
--- Page 1 ---
 
Copyright © PLAN-IT-ALL. All rights reserved 
 
HOW TO DRAW HAND-DRAWN FLOOR PLAN SKETCH ? 
 
REQUIREMENTS 
 
1. Graph paper.  
2. Measuring tape / laser measuring tool. Set units to metric. 
3. Dark black pen, a blue pen and a red pen.  
4. Compass for indicating North direction (optional) 
 
CHECK POINTS 
 
1. Draw one floor per page for clarity 
2. Try and use a color coding for drawing 
 Black pen for walls, kitchen units, cupboards, bathroom units, etc. 
 Blue pen is for room dimension & text. 
 Red Pen is for other notes such as North arrow, overhang, angled wall, shape changed or any other instructions for the operator. 
3. Mark arrows for measurement end points. 
4. Write room text and dimension text in a way that is clear and not cluttered with the other line work. 
5. Try and keep the orientation of all text orientation in the same direction for ease of reading. 
6. Represent doors and windows clearly.  
7. Indicate kitchen units and bathroom units clearly. Refer symbols below for reference. 
 
For ease of drawing, we have created a ready DRAWING GRAPH with all symbols and checklist. Simply print and draw using this graph 
paper. 


--- Page 2 ---
 
Copyright © PLAN-IT-ALL. All rights reserved 
 
HOW TO DRAW FLOOR PLAN 
 
1. Start by drawing from a corner of the property and work 
your way around.  
2. Draw the exterior walls taking care of the exterior shape 
of the house. 
3. Draw the interior walls taking each room, proportion and 
layout into account. 
4. Draw staircase (Straight, turning, spiral, etc.) 
5. Draw terrace/ balcony/ garage if adjoining the floor. 
 
  
6. Complete room interiors one by one  
 Doors (sliding, folding, etc.) 
 Windows  
 Fireplace, columns or thicker areas of walls  
 Bathrooms - Draw WC, wash basin, bath/shower, 
 Kitchen - Kitchen bench, kitchen units, wash basin 
 Mark measurement end points and write 
measurements 
 Write room names. 
 Mark furniture layout, if required. 
 
EXAMPLE OF HAND DRAWN SKETCH OF A FLOOR PLAN 
 
