
--- Page 1 ---
Floor Plan Knowledge Base


--- Page 2 ---
A floor plan is a 2d drawing to scale of the inside of a building. It is a horizontal cut of 
the building at a height of 1 meter from the floor.
The elements that can be shown in a floor plan are:
•The Walls,
•The Partitions, 
•The Doors, 
•The Windows, 
•The Stairs, 
•The Furniture, And More

--- Page 3 ---
Section AA
Floor Plan
Isometric
 Side Elevation
 Front ElevationDifferent views in architecture
A plan view is only one of the different views of a building we see in 
architecture. There are also elevation views, section views, and 3D 
views. These are some example of different view we can have :

--- Page 4 ---
Plan view
Aplan view isahorizontal 2D
view ofabuilding .The most
common plan view drawing is
afloor plan, butthere arealso
reflected ceiling plans, details
plan view, etc.


--- Page 5 ---
Elevation view
An elevation view is a 2D view 
of one of the sides of a building.


--- Page 6 ---
Section view
Asection view is'cutting' inthebuilding
(vertically) andlooking attheinside .
Even forafloor plan, itisuseful tothink
about thesection view and theelevation
view.Some elements arecutthrough, like
insection, andsome elements areseen in
2Dfrom anoutside point ofview, likein
elevations .

--- Page 7 ---
Line Weight
Inarchitecture floor plans, there aredifferent linethicknesses used fordifferent
elements .This iscalled lineweights .
This istomake theplan easier tounderstand andhelp them make thelinkbetween
the2Dandthe3D.
Every object drawn inafloor plan canbeseparated into3categories :
Theobjects below 4feet
Theobjects 'cut'at4feet
Theobjects above 4feet

--- Page 8 ---
Depending onthecategory towhich theobjects belong, itwillnotberepresented
withthesame lineweight .

--- Page 9 ---
Theobjects below 4feet
Theobjects below 4feetoften include thefloor itself, front porches, decks, balconies,
banisters, walls notreaching theceiling, stairs going down, thelower steps ofstairs
going up,countertops, andother furniture .
These objects areseen from above, sotheir representation isonly theway they look
onthetop.Weusually usecontinuous fineormedium lines torepresent them .
Sometimes, thecloser theobjects areto4feet, theheavier thelines canbe.


--- Page 10 ---
Theobjects 'cut' at4feet
Theobjects 'cut'at4feetwillalways berepresented with heavier lines.They often
include exterior walls, interior walls, theglazing andframe ofwindows, columns, etc.
Toindicate thatthey arecuttrough, alotofthese objects willbepoached (shaded in
black) .This includes themain elements offloorplans, liketheexterior walls, the
partitions, andstructural elements .Doors andwindows willnotbepoached .

--- Page 11 ---
The objects above 4feet
The object above 4feet often includes thehigher steps ofstairs going up,ceiling features
(Ex:opening inthefloor above orcathedral ceilings), orupper cabinets .
Those objects areconsidered "hidden" inthefloor plan because you would notseethem
ifyou look down at4feet.So,todraw them, weusefine dashed lines .


--- Page 12 ---
Other uses oflineweights
Also, different lineweights canbeused forgraphic reasons .Anobject thatasa
lotofdetails inasmall amount ofspace willhave thinner lines tomake iteasier
tounderstand .Itcanalso beused tohierarchize theelements .Forexample, less
important ones, likefloor finishes ,willbeinthinner lines todraw attention tothe
main elements .
The dashed lineisalso used torepresent anyhidden object even ifitisnot
above 4feet.Forexample, instairs ,theriser willbeindashed lines, because
they arehidden bythetread andthenosing .Also, thepartofthedishwasher that
isunder thecountertop willbeindashed lines.

--- Page 13 ---
Recap
Large: cut through architectural elements, such as 
interior and exterior walls
Medium: doors, windows, stairs, floor limits, countertop 
and other architectural elements seen from above
Thin: furniture, appliances, and symbols
Thin (dashed): hidden objects, ceiling features, risers 
(stairs), and more.
Extra thin: materials (floors) and other surface features
Elements are filled with black when they are cut 
through. In a floorplan, it is mostly walls or columns.


--- Page 14 ---


--- Page 15 ---
Overall view
This is an overall view of the use of weight line.
Exceptions
The 4 feet rule is almost always followed but does not apply all the time. For example:
In a basement, we often see windows that are only on the upper part of the wall. However, if we follow 
the 4 feet rule, those windows will not appear in any floor plan. Because they are a very important 
element of the building, we can make the decision to still show them as if they were regular windows.
Split levels. They are represented on the floor plan of the closest level. There is no distinction between 
the way split levels and the rest of the level are drawn. The 4 feet rule is ignored because the 
representation of the split level would be too hard to understand.
Some furnitures are drawn as if they were seen from above even if they are cut through, like the 
fridge, because representing the inside of a fridge would add not any helpful detail. However, we tend 
to show the inside of custom or integrated furniture, like pantries.

--- Page 16 ---


--- Page 17 ---
Exterior spaces
•The exterior elements will only be drawn in the level they are in.
•For example, on the ground floor, the deck and the front porch are drawn, as well 
as the exterior stairs and the banisters. However, we do not see the pavement on 
the ground because it is not considered to be at the same level.
•For the second floor, we will not see the deck or the front porch because they are a 
level below. However, if the second floor has a balcony, we will see it.
•In the basement, nothing from the exterior is usually shown because it is only soil 
all around the foundation walls .

--- Page 18 ---


--- Page 19 ---
Walls not reaching the 
ceiling
Some partitions inside the house can 
be at half their height.
They are represented with the same 
thickness as walls, but they aren't 
filled with black because they are not 
cut through.

--- Page 20 ---
Structural elements
Afewstructural elements canbeseen inthefloor plan, such asbearing walls,
columns, andbeams .
They should bealigned with one another because thestructural elements ofa
building arepositioned following thehorizontal andvertical axis.
Thecolumns arerepresented thesame way aswalls (poached inblack), andthe
beams likearchways ifthey arevisible .(columns and beams together create
archways ).

--- Page 21 ---
Stairs
Stairs areone ofthemost difficult elements to
represent because itcan easily getconfusing for
thepeople looking atthefloorplan tounderstand
their direction .
Inafloor plan, theparts ofthestairs and the
dimensions weareable toseearethewidth ofthe
stairway, thelanding, andthethread .
Therisers areshown indashed lines, whereas the
threads areinordinary lines.The handrail isalso
often shown withtwolines.

--- Page 22 ---
Types of stairways
U-Shaped stair
Straight stair
U-Shaped stair U-Shaped stair

--- Page 23 ---
Winder stair
Angular steps can either be at 30 or 45 degrees
U-Shaped and Winder stairL-Shaped stair

--- Page 24 ---
Spiral stair
 Helical stair

--- Page 25 ---
Stairs Up Stairs Down


--- Page 26 ---
Opening in the floor Stairs Up and Down Combined


--- Page 27 ---
Standard Sizes 
Doors
•Standard Sizes -Interior Doors
•Standard Sizes -Exterior Doors

--- Page 28 ---
Exterior Door Threshold
 Interior Door Threshold
Archway

--- Page 29 ---
Room Identification andDimensions
1.Identification
Alltherooms areusually identified with their dimensions, except closets andsmall
storage spaces .Hallway andother circulating areas arealso identified .Sometimes,
itcanbepurposeful toidentify thedeck ortheporch ifthere isalotofexterior living
space .
If there is not enough space to write the complete name of the room, we can use 
abbreviations. For example, WASHROOM often becomes WC or BATHROOM only BATH. 
Just make sure to write it the same way in all the plans of the same house so it is easily 
understandable.

--- Page 30 ---
Common Room Names Examples
•ENTRY
•BATHROOM
•WASHROOM (WC)
•KITCHEN
•DINING ROOM
•HALLWAY
•MASTER BEDROOM
•GUEST BEDROOM•BEDROOM 1,2...
•OFFICE
•LAUNDRY ROOM
•FAMILY ROOM
•EXERCISE ROOM
•GARAGE
•SOLARIUM
•WALK -IN CLOSETThere isn’t a conventional way to name the rooms, as long as it is logical and easily 
understandable.

--- Page 31 ---
2. Dimensions
